content: performance_tool_score_diffs (#977)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/performance_tool_score_diffs.md

---
title: Performance Tooling Score Differences

> subhead: I get different scores in Test My Site, PageSpee Insights, and Lighthouse - why?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subhead: Why do I get different scores in Test My Site, PageSpeeD Insights, and Lighthouse?
```

authors:
  - egsweeny

> date: 2019-07-05

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2019-06-05
```

> hero: hero.jpg

Reviewer: Post needs a hero image. You can find good public domain images on unsplash.com. You'll want to crop the image to 1600 x 800. I'm happy to do this if you find an image you like but don't have photoshop setup yet.

Author: I added a hero image, but imagine that it isn't in the right size. Thank you in advance for tweaking if it isn't... :)

# You can adjust the position of your hero image with this property.
# Values: top | bottom | center (default)
# hero_position: bottom

> alt: A description of the hero image for screen reader users.

Reviewer: Need description of hero image for folks using screen readers.

description: |
  This post serves to explain the reasons that there are differences in performance scores between Test My Site (TMS), PageSpeed Insights (PSI), and Lighthouse. This document does not detail other differences in the tools, such as server run locations, network throttling presets, etc.
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - performance
---

> # Why is my performance score different between different tools? What is my REAL score?

Reviewer: I'd suggest removing this heading as it might look a little weird when the page first renders. Usually we rely on the title acting as the h1.

> <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/user-centric-performance-metrics">Load is not a single moment in time</a>—it's an experience that no one metric can fully capture. There are multiple moments during the load experience that can affect whether a user perceives it as "fast", and if you just focus on one you might miss bad experiences that happen during the rest of the time. <b>This is why we generally use multiple metrics blended together to create our performance scores;</b> but different tools use different metrics and different weighted blends. This can be frustrating when you're looking for a source of truth about how fast your website is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/user-centric-performance-metrics">Load is not a single moment in time</a>—it's an experience that no one metric can fully capture. There are multiple moments during the load experience that can affect whether a user perceives it as "fast", and if you just focus on one you might miss bad experiences that happen during the rest of the time. **This is why we generally use multiple metrics blended together to create our performance scores;** but different tools use different metrics and different weighted blends. This can be frustrating when you're looking for a source of truth about how fast your website is.
```

> This blog post serves to explain the reasons that there are differences in performance scores between three Google tools: <a href="https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/intl/en-gb/feature/testmysite">Test My Site (TMS)</a>, <a href="https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/">PageSpeed Insights (PSI)</a>, and <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/">Lighthouse</a>. This document does <b>not</b> detail other differences in the tools, such as server run locations, network throttling presets, score variance between runs, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post serves to explain the reasons that there are differences in performance scores between three Google tools: <a href="https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/intl/en-gb/feature/testmysite">Test My Site (TMS)</a>, <a href="https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/">PageSpeed Insights (PSI)</a>, and <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/">Lighthouse</a>. This document does **not** detail other differences in the tools, such as server run locations, network throttling presets, score variance between runs, etc.
```

> This blog post serves to explain the reasons that there are differences in performance scores between three Google tools: <a href="https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/intl/en-gb/feature/testmysite">Test My Site (TMS)</a>, <a href="https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/">PageSpeed Insights (PSI)</a>, and <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/">Lighthouse</a>. This document does <b>not</b> detail other differences in the tools, such as server run locations, network throttling presets, score variance between runs, etc.

Reviewer: You can use markdown links instead of html anchors. The syntax is:

```
[link text](url)
```

## Terminology

Various terms about speed/performance are referenced in our tools. We want to start off with some clarification of how these terms are used.

> - <b>Page speed</b> refers to the speed of an individual page on your site (URL level).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Page speed** refers to the speed of an individual page on your site (URL level).
```

> - <b>Site speed</b> refers to the speed of all of the pages on your site (origin level).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Site speed** refers to the speed of all of the pages on your site (origin level).
```

> It is important to note that ‘performance’ or ‘speed’ is not to be defined by a single metric (i.e. First Contentful Paint (FCP), Time to Interactive (TTI), etc.). This is motivated by several considerations, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that "performance" or "speed" is not to be defined by a single metric (i.e. First Contentful Paint (FCP), Time to Interactive (TTI), etc.). This is motivated by several considerations, including:
```

Reviewer: I think we have docs on FCP and TTI if you want to link to those?

https://web.dev/first-contentful-paint/
https://web.dev/interactive/

> - (as mentioned before) Page "load is not a single moment in time—it's an experience that no one metric can fully capture" [<a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/user-centric-performance-metrics">source</a>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (as mentioned before) Page "load" is not a single moment in time—it's an experience that no one metric can fully capture [source](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/user-centric-performance-metrics)
```

I didn't realize this was a quote (I thought you had left off a closing quote). I wonder if it could be rephrased so the source is called out at the beginning. Maybe something like, "As mentioned in X, 'Load is not a...'"

- Similarly, no single metric in isolation is able to give a meaningful indication of the health of the web (critical for benchmarking).
- Depending on which metric is chosen, a very different picture of page speed is presented (each requiring different optimizations to improve).

## Performance Scores within Tools

The performance score (top level gauge, 1-100 score) in PSI and Lighthouse is calculated from a weighted blend of multiple metrics to summarize a website's/web app's speed. This <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1sH_T4G_RZAg4CpcV1bT-tmUegBdBpCOOwsdzqtWnO4U/edit#gid=0">weighted blend</a> of metrics that together constitute the performance score in both PSI and LH (as of May 2019, <a href="https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/releases">LH v5.0</a>) is as follows:

> - 3X - First Contentful Paint (FCP)

Reviewer: Do you want to link these to the corresponding docs on web.dev and /web. I think web.dev has docs for everything except FID.

https://web.dev/lighthouse-performance

- 1X - First Meaningful Paint (FMP)
- 2X - First CPU Idle (FCPUI)
- 5X - Time to Interactive (TTI)
- 4X - Speed index (SI)
- 0X - Max Potential First Input Delay (MPFID)

> <i>[Reasons for variance of scores between report runs of Lighthouse and PSI can be found <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AujmeKvBhzr-d8IsB7zPeS-vOtxCdw2GnspKpxJ7d_I/edit">here</a>.]</i>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside %}
To learn more see the _[Lighthouse variance 1-pager.](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/user-centric-performance-metrics)_
{% endAside %}
```

  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Tool Name</th>
        <th>Lab / Field Tool</th>
        <th>Lab Metrics*</th>
        <th>Field Metrics*</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/intl/en-gb/feature/testmysite">Test My Site</a></td>
        <td>Lab & Field</td>
        <td>FCP**</td>
        <td>FCP**</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/">PageSpeed Insights</a></td>
        <td>Lab & Field</td>
        <td>FCP, FMP, FCPUI, TTI, SI</td>
        <td>FCP, FID</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/">Lighthouse</a></td>
        <td>Lab</td>
        <td>FCP, FMP, FCPUI, TTI, SI</td>
        <td>---</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
    <caption>Table 1 — Performance metrics considered in score (by tool).</caption>
  </table>
  <p>*other metrics might be measured by the tools, but they aren’t included in performance/speed score calculations<br>**TMS uses FID as a tiebreaker in cases where FCP between compared sites is the same (but FCP is the lead metric)</p>
</div>

> # Tool Sections: Breakdown

Reviewer: Usually we only allow 1 h1 per page which is the article title.

I'd suggest switching this to an h2 using `##` and update the subsequent section headers to h3s

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <img src="F3_tms_pagespeed.png" alt="">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    Fig. 1 — Page Speed Tools (Lab Data, FCP Only, URL Level)
  </figcaption>
</figure>

FAQs for TMS can be found <a href="https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/feature/testmysite/faq">here</a>.

<hr>

## PageSpeed Insights (PSI)

PSI is powered by Lighthouse and includes data from the Chrome User Experience Report (CrUX). It runs on Google Servers, and the high level performance score is === the Lighthouse performance score. The tool allows for in-depth performance analysis of a page during load.

### PSI Performance Score: Lab Data, Blended Score (5 metrics), URL Level

Here we see the top level performance gauge shown in PSI. This score is 0-100 and it is a weighted blend of the lab metrics that are measured by Lighthouse. 

The high level performance score is the same as it is in Lighthouse, calculated from a weighted blend of 6 lab performance metrics. Information about thresholds can be found <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/v3/scoring">here</a>.

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">

>   <img src="F4_psi_lab.png" alt="">

Reviewer: I think these images are missing from the PR. Also you'll want to write descriptive alt text to explain what's going on in the image for non-sighted users.

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <img src="F5_psi_field.png" alt="">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    Fig. 1 — PSI Field Data (Field Data, FCP & FID, URL & Origin Level)
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<hr>

## Lighthouse

Lighthouse is an open-source, automated tool for improving the quality of web pages. It is available in Chrome DevTools (Audits Panel), among other product surfaces (like PSI and the v5 PSI API). 

### Lighthouse Performance Score: Lab Data, Blended Score (5 metrics), URL Level
The high level performance score in Lighthouse is a blend of 5 weighted lab metrics.

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <img src="F6_LH_lab.png" alt="">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    Fig. 1 — Lighthouse Lab Data (Lab Data, Blended Metrics, URL Level)
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> <i>*Note: In Lighthouse v5 (launched May 2019), Estimated Input Latency was replaced by Max Potential First Input Delay (FID), but it doesn't change scoring (both metrics had/have a weight of 0).</i>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside %}
In Lighthouse v5 (launched May 2019), Estimated Input Latency was replaced by Max Potential First Input Delay (FID), but it doesn't change scoring (both metrics had/have a weight of 0).
{% endAside %}
```

> # Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```

It's important that performance scores aren't fetishized; they are meant to be signals for the general health of your page/site, and to help you isolate where to optimize and to diagnose issues. 

> For more information about performance check out the <a href="https://web.dev/fast">'Fast load times'</a> collection on web.dev.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about performance check out the [Fast load times](/fast) collection.
```
